=head1 NAME

urpmi.files - files used by the urpmi tools

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The urpmi tools (urpmi, urpme, urpmi.addmedia, urpmi.update, etc.) use
several different files to store the state of the RPM repositories (or
media). This manual page documents them.

=head1 FILES

=over

=item I</var/lib/urpmi/list.<media_name>>

Contains the list of all packages known by urpmi and their location. This
file is used when a password is used to access a distant location (using
a network protocol) or when various directories are used to store the
packages. That's why it's not world-readable.

=item I</var/lib/urpmi/hdlist.<media_name>.cz>

Contains information about all known packages; it's a summary of rpm
headers. If an hdlist file is used for a medium, B<urpmf> can operate
completely without accessing this medium (this is almost always the case).

=item I</var/lib/urpmi/synthesis.hdlist.<media_name>.cz>

Contains synthesis information about all known packages built from hdlist
files that can be used by minimal closure algorithm. If these files are
not present, hdlist files will be used instead to resolve dependencies
(but this is much slower).

=item I</etc/urpmi/urpmi.cfg>

Contains media descriptions.
See urpmi.cfg(5).

=item I</etc/urpmi/proxy.cfg>

Contains proxy descriptions for http and ftp media. See proxy.cfg(5).

=item I</etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg>

Contains the descriptions of parallel aliases, one per line. Their general
format is B<< <alias>:<interface[(media)]>:<interface_parameter> >> where
B<< <alias> >> is a symbolic name to identify the parallel alias, B<<
<interface> >> is one of the parallel install methods (can be B<ka-run> or
B<ssh>), B<< <media> >> is a media list (as given to the B<--media>
parameter), and finally B<< <interface_parameter> >> is a specific interface
parameter list like C<-c ssh -m node1 -m node2> for B<ka-run> extension or
C<node1:node2> (list of node hostnames) for B<ssh> extension.

=item I</etc/urpmi/skip.list>

The list of packages that should not be automatically
updated when using --auto-select. It contains one package expression per line;
either a package name, or a regular expression (if enclosed in slashes
B</>) to match the name of packages against. (Actually, it's matched against
the full name of the package, which has the form B<name-version-release.arch>.)

=item I</etc/urpmi/inst.list>

The list of packages that should be installed instead of updated. It has
the same format as the skip.list.

=item I</etc/urpmi/mirror.config>

This file is optional. If present, it should contain a single line:
B<url=http://....> which is the URL of a document that lists the available
mirrors. The default is to use
B<http://www.mandrivalinux.com/mirrorsfull.list>.

=item I</var/log/urpmi.log>

The urpmi log file.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi.cfg(5), proxy.cfg(5).
