=head1 NAME

urpmi.update - Updates package lists for specified media

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    urpmi.update [options] [<names>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

urpmi.update scans the specified urpmi media to update their package list.
<I<names>> is a list of names you first told to urpmi.addmedia. 

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<--wget>

Use wget for downloading distant files. By default curl
is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--curl>

Use curl for downloading distant
files. By default curl is used if available, or wget instead.

=item B<--limit-rate I<rate>>

Try to limit the download speed, I<rate> is given in bytes/sec. This
option is not active by default.

=item B<--proxy> I<proxyhost[:port|1080]>

Use specified HTTP proxy. 

=item B<--proxy-user> I<user:password>

Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
Specifying B<--proxy-user=ask> will cause urpmi.update to prompt for a
username and a password. 

=item B<--update>

Use only update media. 

=item B<--no-md5sum>

Disable MD5SUM file checking. 

=item B<--force-key>

Force update of GPG key. 

=item B<--norebuild>

Don't try to rebuild the hdlist files from the RPMs if the original hdlist
wasn't readable or was corrupted. 

=item B<--ignore>, B<--no-ignore>

Don't update media, but mark them
as ignored (disables them). B<--no-ignore> has the reverse behaviour: it marks
the media as enabled. 

=item B<-a>

Select all media that are not using a removable device to update them. 

=item B<-c>

Clean /var/cache/urpmi/headers directory on exit. 

=item B<-f>

Force rebuild of base files, or of hdlist files when specified twice. 

=item B<-q>

Quiet mode.

=item B<-v>

Verbose mode.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

urpmi(8), urpmi.addmedia(8), urpmi.removemedia(8).

=head1 AUTHOR

Pascal Rigaux (original author), FranE<ccedil>ois Pons,
Rafael Garcia-Suarez, <rgarciasuarez@mandriva.com> (current maintainer) 
