.TH urpmi.files 5 "07 Oct 2004" "Mandriva" "Mandriva Linux"
.IX urpmi.files
.SH NAME
urpmi.files \- files used by the urpmi tools
.SH DESCRIPTION
The urpmi tools (urpmi, urpme, urpmi.addmedia, urpmi.update, etc.) use
several different files to store the state of the RPM repositories (or
media). This manual page documents them.
.SH FILES
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/list.<media_name>
Contains the list of all packages known by urpmi and their location. This file
is used when a password is used to access a distant location (using a network
protocol) or when various directories are used to store the packages. That's
why it's not world-readable.
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/hdlist.<media_name>.cz
Contains information about all known packages; it's a summary of rpm headers.
If an hdlist file is used for a medium, \fBurpmf\fP can operate completely
without accessing this medium (this is almost always the case).
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/synthesis.hdlist.<media_name>.cz
Contains synthesis information about all known packages built from hdlist files
that can be used by minimal closure algorithm. If these files are not present,
hdlist files will be used instead to resolve dependencies (but this is much
slower).
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/urpmi.cfg
Contains media descriptions. See \fIurpmi.cfg\fP(5).
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/proxy.cfg
Contains proxy descriptions for http and ftp media. See \fIproxy.cfg\fP(5).
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg
Contains the descriptions of parallel aliases, one per line. Their general
format is \fB<alias>:<interface[(media)]>:<interface_parameter>\fP where
\fB<alias>\fP is a symbolic name to identify the parallel alias,
\fB<interface>\fP is one of the parallel install methods (can be \fBka-run\fP
or \fBssh\fP), \fB<media>\fP is a media list (as given to the \fB--media\fP
parameter), and finally \fB<interface_parameter>\fP is a specific interface
parameter list like "-c ssh -m node1 -m node2" for \fBka-run\fP extension or
"node1:node2" (list of node hostnames) for \fBssh\fP extension.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/skip.list
The list of packages that should not be automatically updated when using
--auto-select. It contains one package expression per line; either a package
name, or a regular expression (if enclosed in slashes \fB/\fP) to match the
name of packages against.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/inst.list
The list of packages that should be installed instead of updated. It has
the same format as the skip.list.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/mirror.config
This file is optional. If present, it should contain a single line:
.br
    \fBurl=http://....\fP
.br
which is the URL of a document that lists the available mirrors.
The default is to use \fBhttp://www.mandrivalinux.com/mirrorsfull.list\fP.
.TP
.FN /var/log/urpmi.log
The urpmi log file.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIurpmi.cfg\fP(5), \fIproxy.cfg\fP(5).
