.TH urpmi.update 8 "28 Aug 2003" "Mandrakesoft" "Mandrakelinux"
.IX urpmi.update
.SH NAME
urpmi.update \- Updates package lists for specified media
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B urpmi.update [options] [<\fInames\fP>]
.SH DESCRIPTION
urpmi.update scans all the <\fInames\fP> media to update their package list.
Useful for ftp location for example.
.PP
<\fInames\fP> is a list of names you first told to urpmi.addmedia.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\--wget\fP"
Use wget only for downloading distant files. By default curl is used if
available, or wget instead.
.IP "\fB\--curl\fP"
Use curl only for downloading distant files. By default curl is used if
available, or wget instead.
.IP "\fB\--limit-rate \fIrate\fP"
Try to limit the download speed, \fIrate\fP is given in bytes/sec. This option is
not active by default.
.IP "\fB\--proxy\fP \fIproxyhost[:port|1080]\fP"
Use specified HTTP proxy.
.IP "\fB\--proxy-user\fP \fIuser:password\fP"
Use specified user and password to use for proxy authentication.
.IP "\fB\--update\fP"
Add a medium which will be taken into account when updating only update media by
\fBurpmi\fP.
.IP "\fB\-a\fP"
Select all media that are not using a removable device to update them.
.IP "\fB\-c\fP"
Clean /var/cache/urpmi/headers directory on exit.
.IP "\fB\-d\fP"
Force complete computation of (not used anymore) /var/lib/urpmi/depslist.ordered file.
.IP "\fB\-f\fP"
Force rebuild of hdlist files.
.SH FILES
.de FN
\fI\|\\$1\|\fP
..
.TP
.FN /usr/sbin/urpmi.update
The \fBurpmi.update\fP executable (perl script)
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/list.*
Contains the list of all packages known by urpmi and their location only
if a password is used to access distant location (using network protocol) or
various directory are used to store packages.
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/hdlist.*
Contains information about all known packages; it's a summary of rpm headers.
If an hdlist file is used for a medium, \fBurpmf\fP can operate completely
without accessing this medium (this is almost always the case).
.TP
.FN /var/lib/urpmi/synthesis.hdlist.*
Contains synthesis information about all known packages built from hdlist files
that can be used by minimal closure algorithm. If these files are not present
hdlist files will be used instead but this is much slower.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/urpmi.cfg
Contains media description, previous format from older urpmi is still accepted.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/parallel.cfg
Contains parallel alias description, format is
\fB<alias>:<interface[(media)]>:<interface_parameter>\fP where \fB<alias>\fP is
a symbolic name, \fB<interface>\fP can be \fBka-run\fP or \fBssh\fP,
\fB<media>\fP is a media list (as \fB--media\fP parameter),
\fB<interface_parameter>\fP is a specific interface parameter list like "-c ssh
-m node1 -m node2" for \fBka-run\fP extension or "node1:node2" for \fBssh\fP
extension.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/skip.list
The list of packages that should not be automatically updated when using
--auto-select. It contains one package expression per line; either a package
name, or a regular expression (if enclosed in slashes \fB/\fP) to match the
name of packages against.
.TP
.FN /etc/urpmi/inst.list
The list of packages that should be installed instead of updated. It has
the same format as the skip.list.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIurpmi\fP(8),
\fIurpmi.addmedia\fP(8),
\fIurpmi.removemedia\fP(8),
\fIurpmf\fP(8),
\fIurpmq\fP(8),
.SH AUTHOR
Pascal Rigaux, Mandrakesoft <pixel@mandrakesoft.com> (original author)
.PP
Francois Pons, Mandrakesoft <fpons@mandrakesoft.com>
.PP
Rafael Garcia-Suarez, Mandrakesoft <rgarciasuarez@mandrakesoft.com>
(current maintainer)
